Add Rabbit Kafka blog (#407)
vmware-tanzu/tanzu-dev-portal: content/blog/rabbitmq-kafka-revisited.md

Work is currently underway that will alter  that balance, however. While RabbitMQ will continue to offer its traditional queue model, it will also  introduce a new data structure modeling an append-only log, with non-destructive consuming semantics. This new data structure will work much like Kafka’s persistent log, and will be an exciting addition for RabbitMQ users looking to expand their streaming use case. And while this feature will be compatible with the AMQP protocol, it will also introduce a binary-based stream protocol. 

## Developer Experience

The developer experience of the two services has largely remained the same, with the list of clients and libraries continuing to grow thanks to the work of their respective communities. Both [RabbitMQ’s](https://www.rabbitmq.com/devtools.html) and [Kafka’s](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/Clients) client library lists have seen steady growth. As more languages and frameworks have grown in popularity, finding a well-supported and complete library for either service has become easier. 

> One thing to note is the growth of [Kafka Streams](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/streams/), a client library implementation that makes it easier for developers to process streaming data. It’s used for the common use case of reading data from Kafka, processing it, and writing it to another Kafka queue. Additionally, [ksqlDB](https://ksqldb.io) provides a great way for developers to build streaming applications, and well worth checking out. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One thing to note is the growth of [Kafka Streams](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/streams/), a client library implementation that makes it easier for developers to process streaming data. It’s used for the common use case of reading data from Kafka, processing it, and writing it to another Kafka queue. Additionally, [ksqlDB](https://ksqldb.io) is well worth checking out for developers looking to build streaming applications while taking advantage of their familiarity with relational databases. 
```

A similar thing can be accomplished with RabbitMQ with the help of some other pieces, such as [Spring Cloud Data Flow](https://dataflow.spring.io/docs/stream-developer-guides/streams/standalone-stream-rabbitmq/). Furthermore, note the upcoming streaming changes coming for RabbitMQ mentioned in the previous section, keeping in mind that this can open new ways of interacting with RabbitMQ for the developer.

## Security and Operations

> As noted in the initial post, RabbitMQ ships with a useful administration interface to manage users and queues, while Kafka relies on TLS and JAAS. Whether you choose RabbitMQ or Kafka will of course depend on your specific requirements and your use case, but most security scenarios can have a proper conclusion with either technology. 

Reviewer: Can we link TLS and JAAS off somewhere and/or spell them out? TLS is hopefully familiar to anyone reading this, but JAAS might not be?

> It’s important to note the rise of Kubernetes over the last few years and how it affects the operations of services. Substantial work has been done to allow infrastructure operators to run both [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/kubernetes/operator/operator-overview.html) and [Kafka](https://bitnami.com/stack/kafka/helm) on Kubernetes. The RabbitMQ operator and Kafka Helm chart both have very fine control over how these services are configured as well as how to run them on Kubernetes specifically. This makes it extremely easy to get up and running with both of them, configured and clustered out of the box.

Reviewer: Might consider switching the respective links to the next sentence where you call out the operator and helm chart rather than just the names.

> It’s important to note the rise of Kubernetes over the last few years and how it affects the operations of services. Substantial work has been done to allow infrastructure operators to run both [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/kubernetes/operator/operator-overview.html) and [Kafka](https://bitnami.com/stack/kafka/helm) on Kubernetes. The RabbitMQ operator and Kafka Helm chart both have very fine control over how these services are configured as well as how to run them on Kubernetes specifically. This makes it extremely easy to get up and running with both of them, configured and clustered out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It’s important to note the rise of Kubernetes over the last few years and how it affects the operations of services. Substantial work has been done to allow infrastructure operators to run both RabbitMQ and Kafka on Kubernetes. The [RabbitMQ operator](https://www.rabbitmq.com/kubernetes/operator/operator-overview.html) and [Kafka Helm chart](https://bitnami.com/stack/kafka/helm) both have very fine control over how these services are configured as well as how to run them on Kubernetes specifically. This makes it extremely easy to get up and running with both of them configured and clustered out of the box.
```

## Performance

> Performance, as was also noted in the initial post, can be hard to quantify with so many variables coming into play, including how the service is configured, how your code interacts with it, and of course the hardware running the service. Everything from network to memory speed to disk speed can dramatically impact the performance of a service. Of course, both RabbitMQ and Kafka optimize for performance, but you should also make sure your use case leverages them to maximize performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance, as was also noted in the initial post, can be hard to quantify with so many variables coming into play, including how the service is configured, how your code interacts with it, and of course the hardware it's running on. Everything from network to memory and disk speed can dramatically impact the performance of the service. Of course, both RabbitMQ and Kafka optimize for performance, but you should also make sure your use case leverages them to maximize efficiency.
```

For RabbitMQ, there are some great how-to resources  about maximizing performance, such as how to [benchmark](https://www.rabbitmq.com/blog/2020/06/04/how-to-run-benchmarks/) and [size your cluster](https://www.rabbitmq.com/blog/2020/06/18/cluster-sizing-and-other-considerations/). These guides detail best practices for how to configure your clusters and how your code should interact with them for the best performance possible. Much of this advice revolves around things like managing queue size and connections, and being careful about how your client consumes messages. The [RabbitMQ clustering guide](https://www.rabbitmq.com/clustering.html)  also includes things to keep in mind when building a cluster.

Likewise, Confluent has a great [Running Kafka in Production](https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka/deployment.html) guide that covers many of the same concerns for when you’re building the hardware that will run your Kafka cluster, as well as how you configure the cluster itself. There are a couple of things you’ll need to keep in mind since Kafka runs on top of the JVM, but it does a great job of pointing those out.

> If you’re interested in raw numbers, both the [RabbitMQ team](https://www.rabbitmq.com/blog/category/performance-2/) and the [Confluent team](https://www.confluent.io/blog/kafka-fastest-messaging-system/) have recently put out their respective benchmarks. Both include a lot of details on how the clusters were configured and the workload was placed on them, so make sure you take that information into consideration when reading the results. Use case and operations should significantly factor into your decision as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re interested in raw numbers, both the [RabbitMQ team](https://www.rabbitmq.com/blog/category/performance-2/) and the [Confluent team](https://www.confluent.io/blog/kafka-fastest-messaging-system/) have recently put out their respective benchmarks. Both include a lot of details on how the clusters were configured and the workload that was placed on them, so make sure you take that information into consideration when reading the results. Use case and operations should significantly factor into your decision as well.
```

## Making the Call

> Deciding whether to use RabbitMQ or Kafka was never easy, and with both technologies improving every day, the margins of advantage have only grown smaller.  The decision you make will depend on your individual scenario. Make use of the knowledge contained in this post and the initial one and apply it to the familiarity you have with your use case along with any proof of concepts. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deciding whether to use RabbitMQ or Kafka was never easy, and with both technologies improving every day, the margins of advantage have only gotten smaller.  The decision you make will depend on your individual scenario. Make use of the knowledge contained both in this post and the [original one](https://tanzu.vmware.com/content/blog/understanding-when-to-use-rabbitmq-or-apache-kafka) and apply it to the familiarity you have with your use case along with any proof of concepts. 
```
